The Atom:
			
Introduction:

	All matter in the known universe, all that possesses mass and occupies space in three dimensions, is theorized in the Big Bang Theory to have once been densely compacted to infinitely small proportions called the initial singularity. This singularity, the sum of all matter, energy, and the fabric of space-time that would soon propagate outwards, was subject to an intensely hot and chaotic environment; because of this, particles appeared and disappeared to their re-emergence as energy, and fused and split from one another at the highest of extremities capable of being understood by the known laws of the physical universe. However, particles in this containment were not solely designated as matter - the opposite constituent to matter that also existed briefly in the singularity was antimatter, the antithetical amalgamation of particles that unlike matter, possessed directly contrasting properties to it, such as anti-protons with negative charges. Because matter and antimatter were intrinsically incompatible in nature, collisions between particles of matter and particles of anti-matter resulted in mutual annihilation to a corresponding energy equivalence. This characterized the chaos of the singularity, where in addition to pure energy manifesting to matter and vice versa, the collisions between matter and antimatter resulted in a reactive fury driving the emergence of the singularity's expansion. The ruler of the particles in this expansion of space would come to be matter, as it outnumbered antimatter through sheer asymmetrical dynamics, assuming the throne as the chieftain constituent of space-time for what would underlie the reaches of the universe. 

	Eventually this outward expansion allowed space to cool significantly, and as enough time passed, the conditions of space became suitable for protons and neutrons to form and thus combine into nuclei [in the span of a few minutes] and then into what we recognize today as atoms with electrons [after 380 000 years of cooling] - it is at this time that the elements we understand today began to form with distinctive atomic compositions and properties [such as the first (and lightest) elements Hydrogen and Helium, the most frequently occurring elements in the universe, and comparatively heavier elements such as Tungsten and Uranium, which are less abundant and were formed later in time]. It is here that the universe can be understood atomically, and thus the beginning of the story of the atom. 

Structures and Compounds:
	
	As stated above, the atom is a constituent of matter that is composed of a nucleus made up of protons and neutrons [themselves composed of quarks, an elementary particle in physics], and electrons orbiting the nucleus. The atom is also extraordinarily small, beyond the vision of the naked eye and requiring the deployment of several orders of magnitudes of size lower than that of a grain of sand to fully encapsulate its miniscularity. In a neutral atom the number of electrons [with a negative electrical charge] is equal to the number of protons [with a positive charge, equalizing the atom's overall charge for electrical neutrality], and the number of protons, electrons, and neutrons is what distinguishes the atom of one element from an atom of another element. Atoms of like and different elements can combine to form compounds, which is achievable when both elements satisfy certain reactive combination conditions - for example, when there exists an electron disparity between two elements, one atom may form an ionic or covalent bond with another atom to produce a new material and compound. Compounds may be characterized as molecules when together, they assume the form of a unique and original substance without losing any properties intrinsic to that substance; for instance, 11 oxygen atoms, 22 hydrogen atoms, and 12 carbon atoms combine together in a distinct composition to form the sugar molecule, but when organized in another way, it may assume the form of alcohol or starch. It can then be said that molecules with the same types and numbers of atoms can still hold distinctions from one another, by way of how their designs at the molecular level are compounded. A quote from Carl Sagan who was an astrophysicist, astronomer, and astrobiologist, does well to illustrate these machinations of molecular bonding [and the emergence of life because of it] by remarking that "the beauty of a living thing is not the atoms that go into it, but the way those atoms are put together". 

Isotopes and Radioactivity:

	In our first description of the atom, we embarked on a model of the atom that held an equal number of protons and neutrons inside its nucleus; however, an atom can exist with a different number of neutrons compared to protons. These atoms are called isotopes. Discovery of the isotope can be traced back to 1913, as the efforts of many scientists can be credited with its theorization and experimental verification [such as F.Soddy for the first degeneration of uranium, or H.N. McCoy and W.H. Ross in isolating uranium's isotopic radioactive form, topics that will be discussed here soon]. Because isotopes possess a different number of neutrons in their nucleus, they subsequently have different amounts of mass and weight compared to both their isotopic and non-isotopic counterparts. In addition, an element is capable of assuming the form of more than one isotope, and we need not look any further than Hydrogen, which has two isotopes - while the normal atom of Hydrogen does not have a neutron, the Hydrogen isotope Deuterium possesses one neutron, while the Hydrogen isotope Tritium possesses two neutrons in its nucleus, all differing in mass and, in consequence, size and weight. Isotopes diverge from the stability of the atom [with its neutral protonic-neutronic electrical charge], as its greater aggregate of neutrons disrupts the electrical equilibrium in the atom, causing it to become unstable from the tugs between the forces repelling protons from each other [because they have the same charge], and the contrasting acting forces that help keep the nucleus bound together [also known as the strong nuclear force, one of the four fundamental forces of the universe]. This instability causes the unstable nuclei of isotopes to change, and as it wants to lose its extra particles and return to a stable, balanced, and neutral state, it ejects particles and emits high-energy or low-energy radiation [depending on its keenness to shed its additional particles] and is what we observe to be radioactive. Isotopes which exhibit this change in state are said to be radioisotopes. As a radioisotope, or rather, its radioactive atoms break down in this manner, the rate that these atoms of their radioactive elements shed these particles are what we measure to be its half-life; in other words, the amount of time it takes for half of a radioactive element's atoms to decay is observed to be that radioactive element's half life. Half-lives of radioactive elements can differ to vast proportions, where as the half-life of the element Uranium-235 is about 700 million years [the same material that can be used to power nuclear reactors from its fissionable tendency, power weapons of mass destruction, and even fuel theoretical propulsion systems capable of powering spacecraft in interplanetary space], the radioactive isotope Carbon-14 has a half life of approximately 5730 years. Interestingly enough, decaying radioisotopes may not adhere to their elemental designation - as described earlier, part of what identifies elements are the number of protons they have - in this process of atomic decay, protons may also be expelled from the nucleus in part due to the instability between protonic repelling forces and the strong nuclear force. When radioactive atoms undergo this change and lose protons, they may then assume the form of a different element entirely in its transition to a more stable form. For example, an isotope of uranium may decay over millions of years until it has emitted enough particles to achieve a stable form with, say, 82 protons and 124 neutrons, the same nucleic composition as lead which has a stable arrangement of atoms. 

Conclusion:

	There is much more to explore in the nature of the atom, and although we have explored a few of its prominent properties, we have only just begun the journey of atomic inquisition that scientists continue to grapple with and discover today. In order to understand the grandest of celestial objects and postulate the far reaches of the cosmos, we must first understand the nature of the atom, for it is the fundamental unit underlying, connecting, and constructing all matter in nature. 

References:

	McGrayne, S. B., Trefil, J., & Bertsch, G. F. (2017, December 07). Atom. Retrieved December 16, 2017, from https://www.britannica.com/science/atom

	Radioactivity and Radioisotopes. (n.d.). Retrieved December 16, 2017, from https://www.nde-ed.org/EducationResources/HighSchool/Radiography/radioactivity.htm

	The early universe. (n.d.). Retrieved December 16, 2017, from https://home.cern/about/physics/early-universe

	The New book of knowledge. (1979). New York: Grolier.

	
