2. Overall Description

UPOD is a self contained encyclopedia based web site that will supply users with information regarding physics. Because of the large amount of topics and information that physics covers the site will have to be easily navigable and intuitive as well as informative.
To ensure the site is informative a variety of tools for page creation will be implimented to allow for the organization of information such as page sections, categorization and interactive diagrams. 

2.1 Product Perspective

The UPOD site is to be self contained supplying its own front and back end. However, UPOD will be integrated into a Laurier Service as to utilize the Single Sign On authentication service provided by idp.wlu.ca.
UPOD will host full support for the following browsers
	- Firefox 28
	- Chrome 21
	- Safari 6.1
	- Opera 12.1
	- MS Edge 11
UPOD's user interface will run almost exclusively for desktop computers with some, to no, support for mobile browsers. This is primarely because of non resizable elements such as animated and interactable diagrams that will be too large for mobile interfaces.
UPOD's user interface will contain a search bar, for finding relevent pages; a drop down menu or icons, for secondary site functions such as the moderators panel and about; and a table of contents, consiting of links for navigating each individual pages sections and the categories of pages.
UPOD will require a database, to hold information; a server, for generating pages and fufilling user requests; and a browser, for viewing the site.

2.2 Product Functions

Navigation
	UPOD will be navigable using a series of categorical links and a search bar. Categorical based navigation will be based on a hierarchical tree structure implimented by assigning categories to pages.
Search functions	
	UPOD will use bots to find and index key terms from the title and body of articles. key terms are compared to the frequency of word use and if under a certain treshold will be indexed.
Moderator Functions	
	Moderators will be able to create, delete and edit pages.
Page functions
	Pages will have a title, categories, sections, sub sections, formulas and diagrams. 
Admin Functions	
	Administrators will be able to promote and revoke moderator status to a user.


2.3 User Characteristics

General User  - While UPOD is targeted at university students, a general user is not required to have Physics education or experience.
It is assumed that they have basic technical knowledge and can navigate a website. They are able to traverse, read, and suggest new
pages without creating an account.

Moderator - A moderator has all of the privileges of a general user. They also require an account, which can be used to create, update, edit, and delete pages. Moderators should have a basic knowledge of physics and greater technical knowledge than a general user, as they
have a greater degree of control over the website. Programming knowledge is not mandatory, however, if they wish to create an
interactive diagram, the moderator must know javascript.

Administrator - An administrator has all moderator privileges, and can add moderators and administrators to the existing list. They also
require an account, and should have the greatest degrees of physics knowledge and technical experience.


2.4 Constraints

Due to a lack of resources we will be unable to implement a separate mobile browser, causing our website not to be as functional off
desktop browsers.

2.5 Assumptions and Dependencies

The assumption is that any user will be accessible to anyone, where as our administrators and moderators will access from idp.wlu.ca to
edit, create, delete and update pages. Not requiring our team to create a database or hashing or encrypting passwords.
