Title page:
UPOD - Project Management Plans


Change History:
 Version                     Description
 0.1-0.2                     Template added, sections 1.1.1-1.1.3 added 
 0.3                         Section 1.1.4 added
 0.4                         Sections 1.2, 2, 3, 4 added
 0.5                         misc. changes to sections 1.1.4, 3
 0.6                         Section 6 added
 0.7                         Section 5 added
 0.8                         Section 7 (rough)
 0.9                         Section 7 finished, overall doc close to completion
 1.0                         First finished version

Table of contents //(add information at the bottom, not under the sections here):

1. Overview
 1.1 Project summary
  1.1.1 Purpose, scope and objectives
  1.1.2 Assumptions and constraints
  1.1.3 Project deliverables
  1.1.4 Schedule summary
 1.2 Evolution of the plan
 
2. References

3. Definitions

4. Project organization
 4.1 Structure
 4.2 Roles and responsibilities 
 
5. Managerial process plans
 5.1 Startup plans
  5.1.1 Estimation plan
  5.1.2 Staffing plan
  5.1.3 Resource acquisition plan
  5.1.4 Project staff training plan
 5.2 Work plan
  5.2.1 Work activities
  5.2.2 Schedule allocation
  5.2.3 Resource allocation
  5.2.4 Budget allocation
 5.3 Control plan
  5.3.1 Requirements control plan
  5.3.2 Schedule control plan
  5.3.3 Budget control plan
  5.3.4 Quality control plan
  5.3.5 Reporting plan
  5.3.6 Metrics collection plan
 5.4 Risk management plan
 5.5 Closeout plan
 
6. Technical process plans
 6.1 Process model
 6.2 Methods, tools and techniques
 6.3 Infrastructure plan
 6.4 Product acceptance plan
 
7. Supporting process plans
 7.1 Configuration management plan
 7.2 Verification and validation plan
 7.3 Documentation plan
 7.4 Quality assurance plan
 7.5 Reviews and audits
 7.6 Problem resolution plan
 7.7 Process improvement plan


Contributors: 

Project Management Document    SQA
Nathan Wickham (head)          Luciano Abbott
Richard Bouda                  Stephen Maloney
Abel Worku                     Ziyi Zhang
Peter Smerchinski

1. Overview
 1.1 Project summary
  1.1.1 Purpose, scope and objectives: 
  The University Physics Online Database (UPOD) is software designed for students to access physics information, equations and diagrams and for professors to add, edit and remove those components. The scope is Wilfrid Laurier University and the objective is to create software that is easy to use for both students and professors alike. The finished version of UPOD will be delivered to David Brown who will also monitor and critique each stage of the development process. More information can be found on the Project Requirements document.
  
  1.1.2 Assumptions and constraints: 
  The project is to be completed by December 4th. The constraints include working around various group members' schedules to communicate effectively and on time. The assumption is that all work will be completed by each deadline, however when set early enough there is room for modification based on progress and completion, as well as satisfaction by quality testers. Budget is not a factor in this project.
  
  1.1.3 Project deliverables: 
  The project (UPOD) will be delivered to the acquirer (David Brown). The project will consist of a requirements document, a project management document, designs, specifications, a user manual, documentation, work logs, source code and all other documents and work that went into the project.
  
  1.1.4 Schedule summary (more to be added): 
  Monday, September 11th-    Official start of project
  Friday, September 22nd-    Rough draft of management and requirements documents
  Monday, September 25th-    SQA completed on management and requirements documents
  Wednesday, September 27th- Client request date for management and requirements documents
  TBD, October 2017-         UML design completion
  Monday, December 4th-      Self-imposed finish date (subject to change)
  Monday, December 18th-     Client due date
  
 1.2 Evolution of the plan: The plan is constantly evolving as new dates are scheduled and the project advances.
 
2. References:
IEEE Standard for Software Project Management Plans

3. Definitions:
Client-      the individual who commissioned us to work on the project and will receive the final version.
Deliverable- the final product to be delivered to the client.
SQA-         Software quality assurance
UPOD-        University Physics Online Database
UML-         Unified Modelling Language

4. Project organization
 4.1 Structure:
 The project will be broadly split into front end and back end, that is the user interface and coding respectively.
 This list is based on the competency document and channel members and is subject to change.
 
 Front End:                  Back End:
 Nicholas Hallman            Nathan Wickham
 Lidiia Zhitova              Lauren Hepditch
 Rachel Choi                 Peter Smerchinski
 Richard Bouda               Xavier Kuttamparambil
 Abel Worku                  Akkshay Karthikeyan
 Stephen Maloney             Nathan Skof
 Yinhao Zheng                Guyue Li
 Nathan Kohler               Luciano Abbott
 Connor Watson               Stephanie Pitman
 Joseph Shannon              Ziyi Zhang
 Stephanie Pitman            Luke Turnbull
 Luciano Abbott
 Ziyi Zhang
 
 4.2 Roles and responsibilities:
 Client contact: Lauren Hepditch
 Repository owner: Luciano Abbott
 Requirements document head: Stephanie Pitman
 Management document head: Nathan Wickham
 
5. Managerial process plans

 5.1 Startup Plans
 
  5.1.1 Estimation Plan:
   The final project deadline along with several major milestones have been determined by the Client. However, the methods and work required to meet a given deadline are estimated using prior experience as a reference for time take. It is therefor expected that dates and deadlines will often change.
   
   5.1.2 Staffing Plan:
    All members of the project were volunteers from the Fall 2017 CP317. No additional staff will be required or considered.
    
   5.1.3 Resource Aquisition Plan:
    As of the requirements phase, no resources have needed to be aquired, nnor can be aquired due to a budget of 0$.
  
  5.2 Work Plan
  
   5.2.1 Work activities:
    Work activities are to be determined in greater detail once the requirements and design have been determined in greater detail. It is however assumed that each individual working on the project will spend an average of five hours a week performing these work activities, with a natural increase in time spent as the final deadline approaches.
    
    5.2.2 Schedule allocation:
     Scheduling is the be determinned by concencus within smaller groups, such that they conform to the larger dates agreed upon by the client. The basics of the Schedule will kept in section 1.1.4 of this document, with frequent reminders given to the members of the project.
     
    5.3 Control plan
    
     5.3.1 Requirements control plan:
      Channges to the requirements will be decided by a combinantion of group concencus, annd client requests. All major changes to the requirements will have to recieve approval from the client, while minor changes will onnly require concencus from affected group memebers.
      
      5.3.2 Schedule control plan:
       All milestones annd schedules are to be laid out well before the deadline, andn failures to meet said deadlines will lead to checks to determinen the initial schedule is still possible, annd to take intno account any relevant changes into future schedules. All deadlines are to, whenever reasonable to do so, include seperate deadlines as to when quality assurance has been completed.
       
       5.3.4 Quality control plan:
        All completed tasks are to be subject to qualitiy assurance testing by a team who had no role in completing the task initially. These testers are demonstrate, in whatever mannnenr may be reasonable, that they have thouroughly searched for any flaws, faults, or bugs.
        
        5.3.5 Reporting plan:
         All flaws, faults, or bugs found by quality assurance testers will be filed using the inbuilt tools of the repository (gitHub) with a formal template for reporting to be created.

6. Technical Process Plans

  This project management plan will define 4 outlines: the Process Model, the Methods, Tools and Techniques, the Infrastructure Plan, and the Product Acceptance Plan. 

  6.1 Process Model:
    Development of the product from its beginning to final stages is divided into an incrementally contiguous series of phases, each succeeding the other in their relative aspects, converging steadily over time towards the completion of the product and the fulfilment of the due date. 

    Phase 1: [Introductory Phase] Delineation of group tasks and forming central repository for all project-related files.
    Phase 2: [Requirements Phase] Completion of Project Management Plan and Requirements Plan 
    Phase 3: [Design Phase] Initialization of group tasks and prospecting project's front-end and back-end features
    Phase 4: [Implementation Phase] Development of project's front-end and back-end
    Phase 5: [Integration Phase] Consolidation of all of project faculties into one singular cohesive product

  6.2 Methods, Tools, And Techniques:
    At this stage in the product's development, it is yet to be anticipated in great detail precisely what development techniques will be used. However, the clearest approximation that can be made now are those languages that are best suited to the needs of the implementation teams, catering to the requirements of both the product's front-end and back-end. Enacting a final decision on which languages will be used while still in the preliminary stages of the product's development [namely its design stage] may negatively affect implementation.  

  6.3 Infrastructure Plan:
    Each member of the project team has access to personal computers, as well as access to computers in the campus of Wilfrid Laurier University. For the centralization of all project-related data, files, and code, the project team will collectively contribute to a singular GitHub repository. In addition, a collaborative workspace on the website "slack.com" has been created to streamline communication between members of the project team.

  6.4 Product Acceptance Plan:
    To ensure the quality of all stages of the product's development, from design to implementation to integration, the project team will include formations of SQA [Software Quality Assurance] to review, refine, advise, debug, and document the product's components. Software Quality Assurance groups will play a significant role in the improvements of each successive version of the project.

7. Supporting Process plans
 This project management plan will discuss the following supporting process plans: configuration management plan, verification and validation plan, documentation plan, quality assurance plan, reviews and audits plan, problem resolution plan, and the process improvement plan.
 
 7.1 Configuration Management plan:
 The configuration of the project UPOD will be intrinsically systematized through its own stages of development and the documents that guide them, to be realized through the required components to successively build them. For example, the project's "Requirements" document will contribute to the team's ability to remain consistent with the goals it sets for the project. In other words, use of the "Requirements" document contributes to how project organization can be tabulated [among each team member] and thus operationalized [among the team as a whole], in which adhering chiefly to the objectives of the project helps to eliminate any misunderstandings of its implementation. 
 
 7.2 Verification and Validation plan:
 All verification and validation is done using the GIT version control system. The repository hosted on GitHub keeps track of the changes and contributions each member makes towards their respective tasks.
 
 7.3 Documentation Plan:
 All phases of the project must be documented. GitHub itself will assist in this by recording who did what, while the rest will be documented in a variety of means. Such means may involve a group-led tracking catalogue to monitor each member's contributions, if applicable, to procure a system of healthy engagement to the project's documentation [and to the project as a whole].
 
 7.4 Quality Assurance Plan:
 SQA teams will review and report on all phases of development, highlighting areas of improvement that the team working on the actual component will fix. Proposals of revised content are encouraged for all aspects of the project and concerns shared among authors of such components.
 
 7.5 Reviews and Audits:
 David Brown will regularly review the project and offer suggestions for improvements. 
 
 7.6 Problem Resolution Plan:
 Any problems that may arise are settled democratically by ways of polling and surveying the most supported outcome. For instance, time conflicts and meetings will be decided by a vote, and the time with the highest number of votes will be selected as best representative of the group majority.
 
 7.7 Process Improvement Plan:
 Formulation of the process improvement plan should take place post-integration phase, when the team and its members have a more comprehensive understanding and experience of how the project UPOD has moved through the various processes of project development.
